README.md, before:

# Osiv

Minimal example of authentication server with two tiers of users

## Overview

A minimal example of an authentication server with two tiers of users:

- "Privileged" users that can only be created with a master password
- "Unprivileged" users that can sign up freely

Of course, it is not a hard requirement that "privileged" users have more rights than "unprivileged" ones, but the idea is that one should not be able to randomly sign up for a "privileged" account which may somehow be considered more important than an "unprivileged" one.

## Why the name?

More on that later ;-)

## API

This is the application programming interface (API) exposed to the client by a server that respects the Osiv API. See API.md for more details.

## Getting Started

The reference implementation of Osiv in this repo is written in Node.js with Fastify and depends on an MySQL database for storing account information.

### From source

1. Clone/download the repo to your Web server with Node.js installed: `$ git clone https://github.com/DonaldKellett/Osiv.git`
1. Change directory to the root of this repo: `$ cd /path/to/your/Osiv`
1. Ensure you have administrative access to a server with MySQL installed and running
1. Run the `osiv.sql` script on the MySQL server as the MySQL root user, e.g. you would do this on CentOS 8 Stream: `$ mysql -u root -p < /path/to/your/Osiv/osiv.sql`
1. Back in your Web server, edit `config/db-host` to point to the IP address or hostname of your MySQL server (if located elsewhere from your Web server)
1. (Recommended) Run suitable queries on the MySQL server to change the password for the MySQL `osiv` user (default: `P@ssw0rd`) and update `config/db-pw` accordingly to instruct the Web server to connect to the database server using this new password
1. (Recommended) Edit `config/jwt-secret` and `config/master-pw` accordingly to set a new JWT secret and master password respectively
1. (Optional) Edit `config/timeout` to modify the login timeout for users
1. Ensuring that you are in the root directory of this repo, run `$ npm install` to install all the required Node.js modules and dependencies
1. Run `$ npm start` to start the Web server at port 3000 and enjoy :-)

The behavior of the Web server can be further configured via two environment variables:

- `OSIV_CONF_BASE`: Controls where the Web server reads its configuration. Defaults to `/path/to/your/Osiv/config`
- `PORT`: Controls which port the Web server listens to. Defaults to 3000

### Using the provided RPM

If using the provided binary RPM `osiv-0.1.2-1.el8.noarch.rpm` (only tested on CentOS 8 Stream):

1. Download the RPM package to your (Red Hat-based) Linux system
1. Install from the package: `$ sudo dnf install /path/to/your/osiv-0.1.2-1.el8.noarch.rpm`
1. Run the initialization script:
   
   ```bash
   $ sudo su -
   # osiv --init
   # exit
   ```
   
   Note that replacing the above with `$ sudo osiv --init` fails with an error; this has probably something to do with real vs. effective UID
1. (Recommended) Run suitable queries on the MySQL server to change the password for the MySQL `osiv` user (default: `P@ssw0rd`) and update `/etc/osiv/db-pw` accordingly to instruct the Web server to connect to the database server using this new password
1. (Recommended) Edit `/etc/osiv/jwt-secret` and `/etc/osiv/master-pw` accordingly to set a new JWT secret and master password respectively
1. (Optional) Edit `/etc/osiv/timeout` to modify the login timeout for users
1. Start the Osiv web service as root: `$ sudo systemctl start osiv`
1. Enjoy :-)

### Using the provided deb

If using the provided binary deb `osiv_0.1.2_all.deb` (only tested on Ubuntu 20.04 server), follow all the instructions in "Using the provided RPM" section above, except replace the dnf installation command with the APT equivalent: `$ sudo apt install /path/to/your/osiv_0.1.2_all.deb`

## Known Issues

- The `GET /logout` endpoint does not actually invalidate the JWT login token since JWT tokens cannot be invalidated and maintaining a blacklist of invalidated tokens in-memory violates the REST principle. This should not pose a major security risk as long as the client discards the login token on logout and prevents it from leaking to untrusted third parties before the token expires. But then, Osiv is not meant for production use out-of-the-box anyway since it uses HTTP by default instead of HTTPS, voiding any and all security guarantees (-:
- For the prepackaged (RPM) version, running `$ sudo osiv --init` as a regular user belonging to the `wheel`/`sudo` group fails with a permission denied error during the `npm install` stage. This has probably something to do with real vs. effective UID but the exact cause is yet to be determined

## License

GPLv3 or any later version at your discretion

Commit message:

Document known issue with deb package

README.md, after:

# Osiv

Minimal example of authentication server with two tiers of users

## Overview

A minimal example of an authentication server with two tiers of users:

- "Privileged" users that can only be created with a master password
- "Unprivileged" users that can sign up freely

Of course, it is not a hard requirement that "privileged" users have more rights than "unprivileged" ones, but the idea is that one should not be able to randomly sign up for a "privileged" account which may somehow be considered more important than an "unprivileged" one.

## Why the name?

More on that later ;-)

## API

This is the application programming interface (API) exposed to the client by a server that respects the Osiv API. See API.md for more details.

## Getting Started

The reference implementation of Osiv in this repo is written in Node.js with Fastify and depends on an MySQL database for storing account information.

### From source

1. Clone/download the repo to your Web server with Node.js installed: `$ git clone https://github.com/DonaldKellett/Osiv.git`
1. Change directory to the root of this repo: `$ cd /path/to/your/Osiv`
1. Ensure you have administrative access to a server with MySQL installed and running
1. Run the `osiv.sql` script on the MySQL server as the MySQL root user, e.g. you would do this on CentOS 8 Stream: `$ mysql -u root -p < /path/to/your/Osiv/osiv.sql`
1. Back in your Web server, edit `config/db-host` to point to the IP address or hostname of your MySQL server (if located elsewhere from your Web server)
1. (Recommended) Run suitable queries on the MySQL server to change the password for the MySQL `osiv` user (default: `P@ssw0rd`) and update `config/db-pw` accordingly to instruct the Web server to connect to the database server using this new password
1. (Recommended) Edit `config/jwt-secret` and `config/master-pw` accordingly to set a new JWT secret and master password respectively
1. (Optional) Edit `config/timeout` to modify the login timeout for users
1. Ensuring that you are in the root directory of this repo, run `$ npm install` to install all the required Node.js modules and dependencies
1. Run `$ npm start` to start the Web server at port 3000 and enjoy :-)

The behavior of the Web server can be further configured via two environment variables:

- `OSIV_CONF_BASE`: Controls where the Web server reads its configuration. Defaults to `/path/to/your/Osiv/config`
- `PORT`: Controls which port the Web server listens to. Defaults to 3000

### Using the provided RPM

If using the provided binary RPM `osiv-0.1.2-1.el8.noarch.rpm` (only tested on CentOS 8 Stream):

1. Download the RPM package to your (Red Hat-based) Linux system
1. Install from the package: `$ sudo dnf install /path/to/your/osiv-0.1.2-1.el8.noarch.rpm`
1. Run the initialization script:
   
   ```bash
   $ sudo su -
   # osiv --init
   # exit
   ```
   
   Note that replacing the above with `$ sudo osiv --init` fails with an error; this has probably something to do with real vs. effective UID
1. (Recommended) Run suitable queries on the MySQL server to change the password for the MySQL `osiv` user (default: `P@ssw0rd`) and update `/etc/osiv/db-pw` accordingly to instruct the Web server to connect to the database server using this new password
1. (Recommended) Edit `/etc/osiv/jwt-secret` and `/etc/osiv/master-pw` accordingly to set a new JWT secret and master password respectively
1. (Optional) Edit `/etc/osiv/timeout` to modify the login timeout for users
1. Start the Osiv web service as root: `$ sudo systemctl start osiv`
1. Enjoy :-)

### Using the provided deb

If using the provided binary deb `osiv_0.1.2_all.deb` (only tested on Ubuntu 20.04 server), follow all the instructions in "Using the provided RPM" section above, except replace the dnf installation command with the APT equivalent: `$ sudo apt install /path/to/your/osiv_0.1.2_all.deb`

## Known Issues

- The `GET /logout` endpoint does not actually invalidate the JWT login token since JWT tokens cannot be invalidated and maintaining a blacklist of invalidated tokens in-memory violates the REST principle. This should not pose a major security risk as long as the client discards the login token on logout and prevents it from leaking to untrusted third parties before the token expires. But then, Osiv is not meant for production use out-of-the-box anyway since it uses HTTP by default instead of HTTPS, voiding any and all security guarantees (-:
- For the RPM version, running `$ sudo osiv --init` as a regular user belonging to the `wheel`/`sudo` group fails with a permission denied error during the `npm install` stage. This has probably something to do with real vs. effective UID but the exact cause is yet to be determined
- For the deb version, apart from the issue with the RPM version which is also present in the deb version, the sensitive configuration files `db-host`, `db-pw`, `jwt-secret` and `master-pw` (under `/etc/osiv`) are currently installed with permissions `0644` (should be `0600`), i.e. they are world-readable

## License

GPLv3 or any later version at your discretion
